The direct method underpredicts thermal conductivity with respect to GK and LD. Liang attribute this to significant contributions from long-mean free path phonons, describing the same "short cell" effect as discussed in Sellan and Howell. When long MFP phonons are important, the cells must be larger than a critical minimum length. This length is proportion to the MFP, such that high-conductivity conditions require lengthier direct method cells to mitigate the effect.

Experimental measurements contain structural and chemical defects, which serve to reduce conductivity compared to a "pure" sample. Simulations (mostly) consider "pure" samples, and thus should overestimate conductivity when compared to experiments. When the difference between GK and LD simulations and experiments is large, it is possible that "short length underestimated" direct method results could agree with the "physical condition reduced" experiments. Any agreement between the two is coincidental, assuming the "physical conductivity reducing" effects are significant.

I believe there are 3 finite-size effects that affect direct method simulations. 

When the cells are too short, phonons are able to travel from hot to cold section without any scattering. This gives an unrealistically high conductivity at small lengths, which in turn skews the linear extrapolation towards lower conductivities (reduced gradient = higher y-intercept, higher inverse conductivity = lower real). Once these anomalous points are observed, they can simply be ignored from the fit.

Too small a cross-sectional area (with respect to direction of heat flux), overestimates conductivity by underestimating the effect of phonon-phonon collisions (which serve to impede the heat flow). By increasing CSA, eventually the conductivity result from a cell length will converge. Cells with CSA below this limit should be ignored.

The most mysterious FSE is when the cells become too long, and begin reporting diverging high conductivities w.r.t. the linear extrapolation trend. It has been suggested that this is a trend towards one-dimensional behaviour (sampling of the Brillouin zone, Hu), which is similar to having too small a CSA. This infers aspect ratio plays a key role in simulation suitability. I have not yet observed big enough aspect ratios to negate this problem. Ramping up CSA should remove this problem, but whether it would be computationally-feasible for long cells is debatable. Again, once the divergence is noticed the long cells can be excluded from the fit. 

Choosing an appropriate range of system sizes is key for utilising direct method calculations. The range required for a given material changes with physical conditions; pressure, temperature, composition, anything that changes the magnitude of conductivity. By following these size-picking criteria, it appear possible to reconcile the results of the direct method and GK. Picking several cell lengths and extrapolating the same way across a range of temperature conditions etc. is likely to give results that are overestimating conductivity at high temperatures, and/or underestimating at low temperatures. A one size-fits-all extrapolation procedure is not available for all conditions, care must be taken with each to mitigate the effects of finite simulation size.




HCACF functions can exhibit fast oscillations between positive and negative values when high-frequency optical modes are active. These oscillations can be removed by changing the equation that defines heat flux. This appears to be a cosmetic effect however, GK results from both definitions of q converge within error. Cell volume does not have a large effect on the computed conductivity compared to the direct method, above a certain size simulations agree within (a very wide estimate of...) error.

The authors suggest studying the Gruneisen parameter can infer information on FSE, where "small values indicate contributions from long-MFP phonons can be important". If the NEMD system length is not much longer than the MFPs of the majority of phonons that significantly contribute to conductivity (the authors use "k" instead of writing conductivity all the time!!!), the direct method can severely underestimate.