Wang and Ruan investigate the lattice thermal conductivity of crystalline silicon at 1000 K (and ambient pressure / 0 bar). They used EMD and NEMD methods, namely Green-Kubo and the direct method respectively. Both methods are known to have effects relating to the finite system size available to computations, which affect the conductivity results if the system is too small. They consider the minimum system sizes to avoid finite size effects (FSE), rather than what happens to very long direct method cells.

As system size increases the number of long phonon wavelengths contributing to kappa increases, as does the frequency of kappa-inhibiting phonon-phonon scattering events [The normal finite-size effect is that more phonon modes mean more contribution to conductivity, rather than reducing conductivity by encouraging scattering processes]. These two effects serve to increase, and decrease respectively, the system's thermal conductivity. In GK the former dominates over the latter, increasing system volume causes an increase and subsequent convergence in kappa. Phonons with wavelength longer than the domain size cannot be supported, and thus do not contribute to conductivity. Increasing the phonon wavelengths has a bigger effect than the scattering created by an increased number of phonon modes. Also, as the size of the domain increases, the correlation time required for kappa/integral-convergence decreases.

FSEs in the direct method are more complicated however, due to geometric effects. In GK the simulation cell is kept close to cubic, x~y~z. The direct method requires a cuboidal cell, meaning there is a length and cross-sectional area (CSA) to consider. Increasing the length (along which heat flows and the temperature gradient is measured) increases conductivity in a similar fashion to GK, by allowing for longer phonon wavelengths. 

Although not discussed by Wang and Ruan, I/WE have observed the opposite scenario when increasing the CSA. The conducitvity decreases as area increases and subsequently converges, an obsveration we attribute to phonon-phonon scattering. We hope to show thermal conductivity finite-size effects are not as simple as bigger system equals bigger conductivity. There is also some weird stuff going on when the cell length gets very long. Theory suggests it is the CSA problem for very high aspect ratios, but I have not yet proven this to be so with large CSA cells.

GK does not have any MFP-reducing effects due to periodic boundary conditions in all directions. The direct method is periodic in the cross-sectional planes, but not along the length due to the heat source/sink. The seperation between source and sink is large enough to support the important phonon wavelengths, but thermostats limit the MFP and induce scattering.

They show the conductivity-altering effects for the two methods largely correlate with different phonon properties, wavelength for GK and mean free path (MFP) for direct. Phonon wavelength varies over a much smaller range than mean free path, generally GK/EMD require much smaller systems to mitigate FSE. The direct method has the addition complication of the heat source and sink, phonon scattering caused by the thermostats suppresses the contribution of long MFP phonons. A GK simulation cell has a constant average temperature throughout both time and space, meaning there are no external disturbances to phonon behaviour.
